FICHIER   : Guy.pdf

TITRE     : Skill2vec: Machine Learning Approach for Determining the Relevant

AUTEURS   :
  - Skills from Job Description
  - Le Van-Duyet
  - Vo Minh Quan <95.vominhquan@gmail.com>
  - Dang Quang An <an.dang1390@gmail.com>

ABSTRACT  :
  Unsupervise learned word embeddings have seen tremendous success in numerous Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks in recent years. The main contribution of this paper is to develop a technique called Skill2vec, which applies machine learning techniques in recruitment to enhance the search strategy to ﬁnd candidates possessing the appropriate skills. Skill2vec is a neural network architecture inspired by Word2vec, developed by Mikolov et al. in 2013. It transforms skills to new vector space, which has the characteristics of calculation and presents skills relationships. We conducted an experiment evaluation manually by a recruitment company’s domain experts to demonstrate the effectiveness of our ap- proach.

INTRODUCTION:
  Recruiters in information technology domain have met the
  problem ﬁnding appropriate candidates by their skills. In the
  resume, the candidate may describe one skill in different
  ways or skills could be replaced by others. The recruiters
  may not have the domain knowledge to know if one’s skills
  are ﬁt or not, so they can only ﬁnd ones with matched skills.
  In order to cope with the problem, one should try to
  ﬁnd the relatedness of skills. There are some approaches:
  building a dictionary manually, ontology approach, natural
  language processing methods, etc. In this study, we apply a
  word embedding method Word2Vec, using skills from online
  job post descriptions. We treat skills as terms, job posts as
  documents and ﬁnd the relatedness of these skills.

CORPS:
  II. RELATED WORK
  To ﬁnd relatedness of skills, Simon Hughes [4] from Dice
  proposed an approach using Latent Semantic Analysis with
  an assumption that skills are related to skills which occur
  in the same context, and here contexts are job posts. This
  approach will build a term-document matrix and use Singular
  Value Decomposition to reduce the dimensionality. The cons
  of this approach is that when we have new data coming, we
  can not update the old term-document matrix, this leads to
  difﬁculties in maintaining the model, as the change of trend
  in this domain is high.
  Google’s Data Scientists also face the same problems
  in Cloud Jobs API [7]. Their solution is to build a skill
  ontology deﬁning around 50,000 skills in 30 job domain with
  relationships such as is a, related to, etc. This approach can
  represent complicate relationships between skills and jobs,
  but building such an ontology costs so much time and effort.
  To overcome the problem of relevant term, [3] present a
  new, effective log-based approach to relevant term extraction
  and term suggestion.
  The goal of [2] is to develop an automated system that
  discovers additional names for an entity given just one of
  its names, using Latent semantic analysis (LSA) [1]. In the
  example of authors, the city in India referred to as Bombay
  in some documents may be referred to as Mumbai in others
  because its name ofﬁcially changed from the former to the
  latter in 1995.
  
  There are two dataset we need to concern, one (1) is the
  standard skills dictionary for the parser and another (2) is
  skills for training model; follow the ﬁgure 1.
  Career
  websites
  (1) Standard skills
  collect
  cleaning
  Career
  websites
  Job descriptions
  collect
  (*) parser
  (2) Training
  data
  Fig. 1.
  Pipeline of data collecting and processing
  First, we collected and prepared a large dictionary of
  skills. With this dictionary, we can extract a set of skills
  from raw job descriptions. Skillss need to be cleaned into
  unique skills because there are many way to present a skill in
  job description (i.e. OOP or Object-oriented programming).
  Figure 2 brieﬂy depicts the concept of the cleaning process.
  Raw
  skill
  (1) Remove
  punctuation
  (2) Dictionary
  replace
  (3) Regular
  expression
  (4) Lemmatization,
  Stemming
  Cleaned
  skill
  Fig. 2.
  Pipeline cleaning skills
  After that, we had the dictionary of skills ready for
  parsing. We collected a huge number of job descriptions
  from Dice.com - one of the most popular career website
  about Tech jobs in USA. From these job descriptions, we
  extract skills for each one by using our skills dictionary
  (1). Now, the dataset is presented by a list of collections
  of skills based on job descriptions. After crawling, we got
  a total of 5GB with more than 1,400,000 job descriptions.
  From these data, we extracted skills and performed as a
  list of skills in the same context, the context here includes
  skills in the same job description. The dataset is published
  at https://github.com/duyetdev/skill2vec-dataset
  The data structure is shown in table I.
  TABLE I
  DATA STRUCTURE
  Job description
  Context skills
  JD1
  Java, Spark, Hadoop, Python
  JD2
  Python, Hive
  JD3
  Python, Flask, SQL
  · · ·
  · · ·
  B. Skill2vec architecture
  In this paper, for training the dataset, we used a neural
  network inspired by Word2Vec model as mentioned above.
  Here we treated our skills as words in Word2Vec model.
  In this study, with the documents contain only the skills,
  we chose the maximum window size, implied that every
  skills in the same job description are related to each other.
  For the vector dimensions, after some point, adding more
  dimensions provides diminishing improvements, so we chose
  this parameter empirically. To honour the work of Word2Vec
  model as it holds a big part in our study, we name our model
  Skill2Vec. Figure 3 brieﬂy describes our Skill2Vec model.
  Fig. 3.
  Skill2vec architecture
  
  V. EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
  To evaluate our method, we have an expert team assesses
  the result following these steps:
  1) Pick 200 skills randomly from our dictionary.
  2) Our system will return top 5 ”nearest” skills for each.
  3) The expert team will check if these top 5 ”nearest”
  skills are relevant or not.
  The experiment showed that 78% of skills returned by
  our model is truly relevant to the input skill. We present the
  experimental results in table II
  TABLE II
  QUERY TOP 5 RELEVANT SKILLS
  Query skill
  Top relevant skills
  HTML5
  css3
  bootstrap
  front end
  angular
  responsive
  OOP
  OOD
  Objective
  Java
  Multithread
  Software Debug
  Hadoop
  Pig
  Hive
  HBase
  Big Data
  Spark
  Scala
  Zookeeper
  Spark
  Data System
  Sqoop
  solrcloud
  Hive
  Pig
  HDFS
  Hadoop
  Spark
  Impala

CONCLUSION:
  In this paper, we developed a relationship network between
  skills in recruitment domain by using the neural net inspired
  by Word2vec model. We observed that it is possible to
  train high quality word vectors using very simple model
  architectures due to lower cost of computation. Moreover,
  it is possible to compute very accurate high dimensional
  word vectors from a much larger dataset. Using Skip-gram
  architecture and an advanced technique for preprocessing
  data, the result seems to be impressive. The result of our
  work can contribute to building the matching system between
  candidates and job post. In the other hand, candidates can
  ﬁnd the gap between the job post requirements and their
  ability, so they can ﬁnd the suitable trainings.
  A direction we can follow in the future: adding domain
  in training model, for example: Between Python, Java, and
  R, in Data Science domain, Python and R are more relevant
  than Java, however in Back End domain, Python and Java
  are more relevant than R.

DISCUSSION:
  (non trouvée)

RÉFÉRENCES:
  [1]
  Michael W Berry and Ricardo D Fierro. “Low-rank
  orthogonal decompositions for information retrieval ap-
  plications”. In: Numerical linear algebra with applica-
  tions 3.4 (1996), pp. 301–327.
  [2]
  Vinay Bhat et al. “Finding aliases on the web using
  latent semantic analysis”. In: Data & Knowledge Engi-
  neering 49.2 (2004), pp. 129–143.
  [3]
  Chien-Kang Huang, Lee-Feng Chien, and Yen-Jen
  Oyang. “Relevant term suggestion in interactive web
  search based on contextual information in query session
  logs”. In: Journal of the Association for Information
  Science and Technology 54.7 (2003), pp. 638–649.
  [4]
  Simon Hughes. How We Data-Mine Related Tech Skills.
  2015. URL: http : / / insights . dice . com /
  2015/03/16/how-we-data-mine-related-
  tech-skills/ (visited on 09/12/2017).
  [5]
  Thorsten Lau and York Sure. “Introducing ontology-
  based skills management at a large insurance com-
  pany”. In: Proceedings of the Modellierung. 2002,
  pp. 123–134.
  [6]
  Tomas
  Mikolov
  et
  al.
  “Efﬁcient
  Estimation
  of
  Word Representations in Vector Space”. In: CoRR
  abs/1301.3781 (2013). URL: http://dblp.uni-
  trier.de/db/journals/corr/corr1301.
  html#abs-1301-3781.
  [7]
  Christian Posse. Cloud Jobs API: machine learning
  goes to work on job search and discovery. 2016. URL:
  https: // cloud. google. com/ blog/big -
  data/2016/11/cloud-jobs-api-machine-
  learning-goes-to-work-on-job-search-
  and-discovery (visited on 03/03/2018).
